# Second week of May (May 9 2022 - May 15) 2022

## Monday May 9 2022

I worked remotely on this day, due to allergies and bad sleep.

### Meetings:

* Weekly local optimization meeting:
I attended the 11 am meeting, which for the most part served as a progress update for everyone.
David presented the GOSDT verification update for the most part, that being that he's (we're) half way through the Dafny summer school, and hope to be done by the end of this week.
Ali discussed one of the proofs he's having some issues putting together for his paper, that being GOSDT with sample weighting. He's acheiving this mny rounding sample weights to the nearest integer and running with multiple copies of said sample.
Margo presented the update from the Duke group, in particular the fact they're in the progress of writing up two GOSDT related papers (didn't pay enough attention in this section).
Lastly I presented my update and my projected future avenues for GOSDT work.
**These being:**
    * Sufficiently test that current refactoring has produced semantically equivalent code
    * Perform more refactoring (Now moving into the aveneue of producing more C++ like code) under Jerry's advisement
    * Figure out why our encoder seems to be crashing during ingestion of our datasets through the CLI app, but working peprfectly well with th Python extension.

### Worked on:

I started by runnning the basic `run_example.sh` present in the top level of the `internal` repository.
**This is probably not sufficient testing**.
Proceeded with further refactoring.
First aesthetically by moving all `(void)` function arguments to `()`.
Next I started to remove warnings where we're losing type accuracy when returning from functions.
This type of warning occurs when we do:
```
    int x = (long) 32;
```
but usually occurs when we use library functions that work on larger integer types.
Next, I changes how Message types are passed around, from two static cons ints defined in the `Message` class, to an `enum MessageType` contained in `Message`.
I also moved all the `Optimizer` implementation that was being done in header files in the `optimizer/` folder to appropriate `.cpp` files in the `src/` directory.
I also removed the `Index` class which was not in use, as well as the `precompute` functionality in `Bitmask` that we were not using (This change hasn't been commited yet).

### Incomplete:

Teseting the updated version of GOSDT.
Bugfixing `Encoder` (but this is lower priority).
There's still one C++ present in the codebase, that I'm not sure how to fix (going to hopefully chat with Margo about this one).


## Tuesday May 10 2022

I worked in the office on this day.

### Gym:

| Exercise | Weight (lb) | Sets x Reps |
|----------|-------------|-------------|
| Back Squat | 105 | 5x5 |
| Bench Press | 100 | 5x5 |
| Overhead Press | 50 | 5x5 |

### Meetings:

My only meeting toady was the daily checkup/status update one on one with Reto. 
We discussed two topics:
* Velosiraptor Units: 
I proposed that we get rid of the `unit` keyword and instead replace it with two separate `Segment` and `StaticMap` keywords, which would make the parsing of units easier.
This will involve changing what a unit is at an AST level to an enum with two variants, `Segment, StaticMap`.
Reto agreed with doing this and also thinks it's useful to add inheritance for these new unit replacements.
I'm less convinced that adding inheritance would be a good thing.

* GOSDT Refactoring: 
I showed Reto the current arguments to `scan` in `Bitmask` and made the argument that it makes little sense for these things to be signed integers.
Fixing this issue might end up being a tad annoying so I'm choosing to put it off for now.

### Worked on:

I started to make changes to Velosiraptor so that rather than representing a `Unit` in the AST ans a `pub struct Unit` it's rather presented as `pub enum Unit { DirectSegment, StaticMap }`.
This change will make the parsing of Units easier because units of each type need to contain very different content.
Additionally this might make the logic at codegeneration level easier for this same reason (i.e we know that StaticMaps don't contain any State or Interface).
This was left incomplete with ~100 compilation errors, time to go through and fix them!

## Wednesday May 11 2022

I worked in the office on this day.

### Meetings:

* Daily meeting with Reto cancelled because he's at the department retreat.

* Weekly velosity meeting:
Most of the velosity team (Margo, Reto, Chris, Arpan) were at the department retreat, so the meeting was myself, Jerry, Portia and Sepehr.
I came in late, partway through the meeting, but from what I picked up, Jerry gave an explanation of the various methods that device drivers interface with hardware devices.
These being: DMA and device interrupts. 
After their discussion, I discussed the GOSDT implementation with Jerry.
In particular our shared desired to rewrite it, my fear/worry of reimplementing the frontend/encoder, and my desire to rewrite/restructure the algorithm logic.
We also discussed some particular issues with the Bitmask class:
    * It's named poorly
    * Jerry  has an alternate implementation of it he's going to send over
    * That `std::vector<bool>` might not be appropriate because it doesn't implement the bitwise operations we want in a fast enough way (i.e with SIMD instructions), this is because it's not guaranteed that our data will be available contiguously.
    * The way the `scan` function is defined is kind of dumb and we're using the wrong types for a bunch of stuff
    * Our use of getters, setters, small private functions is kind of dumb because even if we're reducing code repetition, we're severely impacting readability.

    Additionally, I introduced to Jerry the refactoring I'm performing in the Velosiraptor project.
    Jerry agrees with me that my change to the syntax from `unit X(_) : segment {}` to `segment X() {}` will improve the language's usability and that the addition of Inheritance will muddle things up for the users of the language, and would make it needlessly complicated.

### Worked on:

I completed the parser/lexer side of the `struct Unit` to `enum Unit` refactor of Velosiraptor.
I decided to keep `unit` around as a reserved keyword, but as of right now it's not being used.
The next step is fixing all the errors I've created in the backend as a result of this change.
My plan moving foreward is to fix the backend by introducing a bunch of `match unit` statements, but to not deal with the `StaticMap` sections of this and instead add a bunch of `todo!()`'s all over the place that I will need to later review.
I also might need to change our examples and unit tests in the lexer/parser to reflect my changes.
At the end of the day I learned that in Rust it is not idiomatic to use struct-like enums, and it is instead preferred to use enums of structs.
To note the distinction, here's a small example:
```rust
// Not Idiomatic Rust
enum A {
    B {
        f1: t1,
        f2: t2,
        f3: t3,
    },
    C {
        f4: t4,
        f5: t5,
        f6: t6,
    },
}

// Idiomatic Rust
struct B {
    f1: t1,
    f2: t2,
    f3: t3,
}

struct C {
    f4: t4,
    f5: t5,
    f6: t6,
}

enum A {
    B(B),
    C(C),
}
```
My current implementation of `enum Unit` is in the first style and I have to work on moving it to the second style.

### Incomplete/Todo:

* Velosiraptor change `struct unit` to `enum unit { segment, staticmap }` (For more details read "Worked on" section from today)
* Add cpp fixes/refactoring to GOSDT
* Discuss the GOSDT CI with Reto and ask him for help using it to test all the cpp changes I've been making.
* Read "Reflections on Trusting Trust" more carefully (and in particular try writing a quine)
* Implement priority queue in Dafny
