# First week of May (May 2 - May 8) 2022


## Wednesday May 4 2022

### Meetings:

* Weekly velosity meeting:
Met with the whole velosity team.
The various projects worked on by the group were given tldr introductions for the new undergraduates in the group. 
**We won't have an official meeting next week** because of the faculty retreat, the undergraduates can still have a meeting at that time. 

    Note: Chris Chen is working on verification/program synthesis, so he might be a good person to ask questions once I get to weirder parts of Dafny.

* Impromptu Optimization group meeting with Margo and David:
Started by Discussing our Plan for how we're going to proceed with the gosdt verification project. 
**That being**:
    1. Work through Dafny summer school course
    2. Read OSDT and GOSDT papers critically with Dafny in mind (We should do this with Amee)
    3. Implement a priority queue in Dafny
    4. Not Sure Yet...
    
    Additionally we pointed out and discussed a couple of bugs/typos in the OSDT paper.
    Lastly Margo and I discussed how to best proceed with the fixes that have to be made to the **gosdt_guesses** codebase.
    **That being**:
    1. Remove all cpp compilation warnings
    2. Perform cpp fixes as suggested by Jerry
    3. ... (SuperTask?)

### Worked on:

* Dafny summer school:
Watched Lectures 2, 3 and completed a couple of their respective exercises, while taking notes.

### Incomplete:

Started working on chapter 2 exercise 2 of the Dafny class (merge sort) problem, but stopped part way.


## Thursday May 5 2022

### Worked on:

### Notes while working on Velosiraptor:

Q: Can units that possess a Map contain a state or interface (i.e should we allow Units that are these hybrid monsters of Direct Segments and StaticMaps)?
If not perhaps it would make sense to not have "Units" altogether and rather have these 2 separate class/struct things we call "DirectSegment" and "StaticMap".

### GOSDT Warning elimination

Picked up by trying to fix warnings generated in  `bitmask.h` and `bitmask.cpp`. 
Fixed a simple issue where we were setting a `code` variable to a bool, but never actually putting it to use after the fact.
The next issue I thought about, which I'm still finding challenging to reason about is wether the "scanning" interface in Bitmask makes much sense.
It seems that `scan` and `rscan` should not be consuming signed integers for `size, start, end` values, I think that all of these should be some unsigned type and that if you want to receive some information about wether you've actually found a value or not, that should be handled by some other flag variable, or the return type.

Also in `bitmask`, there's a `precompute` function that is not called from anywhere and is presumably `dead code`.

Bouncing off of that last realisation, I'm going to proceed by scrapping all current changes, and using a static analyzer to find and delete all dead code within GOSDT (plan on using `cppcheck`)

## Friday May 6 2022

### Worked on:

I picked up where I left off the day before with working on the GOSDT Warning elimination.
This took a while and effectively was a process of compiling and cpp checking, fixing as many of the warnings as I could find an obvious answer for, and then repeating.
Once I completed this process, I commited the final result on a branch called `warning_fixes` of the `gosdt-guesses-internal` repository. 
I note that as of now this crashes with our current datasets, but I think this is an issue with the `encoder`, and will need to confirm this by testing against the original version of the `repo` on the `master` branch.

Additionally I planned the OSDT reading group of myself, David, Amee, Reto for 2pm the following friday (Fri 13 2022).

Q: At somepoint Margo and Hayden chatted about forming the GOSDT lsost function as an integer rather than as a float. How, and would that be useful?

### Incomplete:

Testing the updated version of GOSDT.
Bugfixing `encoder` for the `IntegrityViolation` we're running into.